feat(curriculum): create higher-order-function-quiz (#56653)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/25-front-end-development/quiz-javascript-higher-order-functions/66edcdd18a4ef8df16e6bb7e.md

---

Higher-order functions may introduce complexity in understanding code, but they can also lead to more expressive and concise solutions.

#### --answer--

All functions in JavaScript, including those that do not manipulate or return other functions, can be classified as higher-order functions.Placeholder answer

### --question--

#### --text--

Which of the following statements about closures and higher-order functions is true?

#### --distractors--

Higher-order functions must always return a new function; otherwise, they are not considered higher-order.

---

Closures and higher-order functions are unrelated concepts in JavaScript.

---

Higher-order functions cannot create closures since they do not return inner functions.

#### --answer--

Closures created by higher-order functions can capture the lexical scope, allowing for state preservation.

### --question--

#### --text--

Evaluate the Output

```js
const numbers = [1, 1, 1, 1, 1];
let sum = 0;
const forEachRes = numbers.forEach(num => {
  return (sum += num);
});
const mapRes = numbers.map(num => {
  return (sum += num);
});
```

#### --distractors--

> forEachRes is undefined and mapRes is [1,2,3,4,5]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`forEachRes` is `undefined` and `mapRes` is `[1,2,3,4,5]`
```

---

> forEachRes is 0 and mapRes is [1,2,3,4,5]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`forEachRes` is `0` and `mapRes` is `[1,2,3,4,5]`
```

---

> forEachRes is 5 and mapRes is [1,2,3,4,5]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`forEachRes` is `5` and `mapRes` is `[1,2,3,4,5]`
```

#### --answer--

> forEachRes is undefined and mapRes is [6,7,8,9,10]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`forEachRes` is `undefined` and `mapRes` is `[6,7,8,9,10]`
```

### --question--

#### --text--

Evaluate the output

```js
[, undefined, 'a', 'b', { 20: 5 }].sort();
```

#### --distractors--

unsupported elements for an array to be sorted, hence error

---

Callback not supplied, hence error

---

```js

> [<1 empty item> , 'a', 'b', undefined,{ '20': 5 } ]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[<1 empty item>, 'a', 'b', undefined, { '20': 5 }]
```

Reviewer 2: you did not address this @bharateshwq

```

#### --answer--

```js

> [ { '20': 5 }, 'a', 'b', undefined, <1 empty item> ]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[{ '20': 5 }, 'a', 'b', undefined, <1 empty item>]
```

Reviewer 2: you did not address this @bharateshwq

```

### --question--

#### --text--

Which of the following describes a callback function in JavaScript?

#### --distractors--

> ## A function that is called immediately upon declaration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A function that is called immediately upon declaration.

---
```

> ## A function that is called immediately upon declaration.

Reviewer 2: why do you have this as an header?

```suggestion
A function that is called immediately upon declaration.
```

Author: Hey,
I did not notice that mustve been a prettier autoformatting
Will fix it

> A function that is invoked with a specific context.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
---

A function that is invoked with a specific context.
```

do not remove separators or empty lines

Reviewer 2: you did not address this @bharateshwq

Author: Hey @ilenia-magoni 
i have fixed it int he latest commit, please check

---

A function that returns another function.

#### --answer--

A function passed as an argument to another function, to be executed later.

### --question--

#### --text--

What is the result of using reduce() on an array?

#### --distractors--

A boolean indicating whether any elements meet a condition.

---

An Array with all elements reduced by specified callback function

---

An Array of booleans

#### --answer--

> A single accumulated value derived from all elements in the array.

Reviewer: This is edge case, but not necessarily. Depending on the callback and initial value, it might be ie. array as well.

Author: Hey @gikf ,
Yes i agree with it,  The he MDN has it in a separate section, which makes me question whether its out of scope of quiz of this level. 
In case you still want it to be fixed 
Would the below be a better option
'A single accumulated value from the array, or the sole element if the array has one element and no initialValue. Returns undefined for an empty array with no initialValue.'

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It varies depending on the accumulator's initial value and the callback function.
```

### --question--

#### --text--

How does the sort() method behave if no comparison function is provided?

#### --distractors--

It sorts the array as strings based on UTF-16 code units but takes undefined, empty slots and object references the start

---

It returns an error.

---

It sorts the array in reverse order.

#### --answer--

It sorts the array as strings based on UTF-16 code units but moves empty slots to the end of the array and object references converts to "[object Object]"

### --question--

#### --text--

What is the purpose of the some() method in JavaScript?

#### --distractors--

To create a new array with the results of a function applied to each element.

---

To iterate through an array without producing a result.

---

To reduce an array to a single value based on a callback function.

#### --answer--

To determine if any elements in an array pass a specified test.

### --question--

#### --text--

Which of the following is an example of method chaining?

#### --distractors--

```js
Math.random();
```

---

```js

> array.push(1).pop();

Reviewer: Isn't this technically also method chaining? Perhaps, question could be changed to specifically ask for correct usage?

Reviewer 2: you did not address this @bharateshwq

Author: I think it would be beneficial to clarify that method chaining isn't always applicable just because a method returns a value. The methods involved must actually support chaining.

Reviewer 2: this contradicts an other question where you have that `push` supports chaining

Author: From what i understand push returns length of the resulting array as its output, this means the resulting number has toString(), toFixed() and many more functions to be chained similar to most of the functions where array is returned. This options might even educate a student that push returns a number which means .pop() is unsupported.

Reviewer 3: We can resolve this by changing the question a bit. See my suggestion above.

```

#### --answer--

```js
str.toLowerCase().trim().replace(' ', '_');
```

### --question--

#### --text--

What must a method return to allow for method chaining?

#### --distractors--

A primitive value.

---

A boolean value.

---

An array.

#### --answer--

The same object or another object that has more methods.

### --question--

#### --text--

Which of the following benefits does method chaining provide?

#### --distractors--

It inherently optimizes performance by reducing the execution time of functions.

---

It eliminates the need for temporary variables but may increase memory usage in some cases.

---

It allows for error handling and debugging to be more straightforward.

#### --answer--

It promotes simplified syntax and more readable code by allowing multiple operations in a single expression.

### --question--

#### --text--

In the context of method chaining, what is a fluent interface?

#### --distractors--

A way to handle errors in method calls.

---

A type of function that returns a promise.

---

A design pattern for asynchronous programming.

#### --answer--

A style that allows method chaining for more natural syntax.

### --question--

#### --text--

> What is the impact of using bind() on a higher-order function in JavaScript?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
What is the impact of using `bind()` on a higher-order function in JavaScript?
```

you need to use backticks

#### --distractors--

> bind() creates a new function with a specific this context, but does not change the function's parameters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`bind()` creates a new function with a specific this context, but does not change the function's parameters.
```

find the other places and add backticks please

---

bind() can modify the original function's implementation.

---

bind() ensures the function is executed immediately with the specified context.

#### --answer--

bind() creates a new function with a specific this context, allowing the higher-order function to retain the intended context when called later.

### --question--

#### --text--

Which of the following methods supports method chaining?

#### --distractors--

```js
Array.prototype.push();
```

---

```js
Array.prototype.map();
```

---

```js
Array.prototype.filter();
```

#### --answer--

All options mentioned

### --question--

#### --text--

what will [2, , 2].every((x) => x === 2) return?

#### --distractors--

> ## false, every() will not run its predicate on empty slots.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`false`, `every()` will not run its predicate on empty slots.

---
```

> undefined

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`undefined`
```

---

> null

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`null`
```

#### --answer--

> true, every() will not run its predicate on empty slots.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`true`, `every()` will not run its predicate on empty slots.
```

### --question--

#### --text--

What does the following code demonstrate about the .filter() method in JavaScript?

```js
const originalArray = [{ id: 1 }, { id: 2 }, { id: 3 }];
const filteredArray = originalArray.filter(item => item.id > 1);
filteredArray[0].id = 4;

console.log(originalArray);
```

#### --distractors--

> originalArray remains unchanged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`originalArray` remains unchanged.
```

---

> originalArray only retains the elements filtered out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`originalArray` only retains the elements filtered out.
```

---

> originalArray is completely different from filteredArray.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`originalArray` is completely different from `filteredArray`.
```

#### --answer--

> originalArray reflects changes made to filteredArray due to shallow copying.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`originalArray` reflects changes made to `filteredArray` due to shallow copying.
```

### --question--

#### --text--

What would be the output of the following code?

```js

> const multiply = (a) => (b) => a \* b;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const multiply = (a) => (b) => a * b;
```

const operations = [multiply(2), multiply(3)];
const result = operations.reduce((acc, fn) => fn(acc), 5);
console.log(result);
```

#### --distractors--

10

---

100

---

20

#### --answer--

30

### --question--

#### --text--

What is the purpose of the initialValue parameter in the reduce() method?

#### --distractors--

To set the length of the array.

---

To limit the number of iterations.

---

To specify the return type of the function.

#### --answer--

To define the starting point for the accumulator.

### --question--

#### --text--

What is the recommended practice when using the map() method comparing to forEach()?

#### --distractors--

Always chain it with the forEach() method.

---

Always use it to modify existing objects.

---

Use it to delete elements from the array.

#### --answer--

> Avoid using it for side effects; use pure functions instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use it with pure functions, avoid it when using functions making side effects.
```

### --question--

#### --text--

What happens when map() is called on a sparse array?

#### --distractors--

It fills in the empty slots with null.

---

The callback function is called for every index, including empty slots.

---

The array is automatically compacted to remove empty slots.

#### --answer--

> The returned array remains sparse, and the callback is not invoked for empty slots.

Reviewer 2: you did not address this @bharateshwq

#### --distractors--

Higher-order functions can greatly enhance code readability and maintainability by enabling functional programming techniques.

---

Higher-order functions like map, filter, and reduce are powerful tools for array manipulation, but they are not unique to functional programming.

---

Higher-order functions may introduce complexity in understanding code, but they can also lead to more expressive and concise solutions.

#### --answer--

All functions in JavaScript, including those that do not manipulate or return other functions, can be classified as higher-order functions.

### --question--

#### --text--

Which of the following statements about closures and higher-order functions is true?

#### --distractors--

Higher-order functions must always return a new function; otherwise, they are not considered higher-order.

---

Closures and higher-order functions are unrelated concepts in JavaScript.

---

Higher-order functions cannot create closures since they do not return inner functions.

#### --answer--

Closures created by higher-order functions can capture the lexical scope, allowing for state preservation.

### --question--

#### --text--

> Evaluate the Output

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Evaluate the output
```

#### --text--

Consider the following statements about JavaScript higher-order functions. Which one presents a common misconception?

#### --distractors--

Higher-order functions can greatly enhance code readability and maintainability by enabling functional programming techniques.

---

Higher-order functions like map, filter, and reduce are powerful tools for array manipulation, but they are not unique to functional programming.

---

Higher-order functions may introduce complexity in understanding code, but they can also lead to more expressive and concise solutions.

#### --answer--

> All functions in JavaScript, including those that do not manipulate or return other functions, can be classified as higher-order functions.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
All functions in JavaScript, including those that do not take or return other functions, can be classified as higher-order functions.
```
Not sure what is meant by "manipulate" here, but I assume we are talking about taking a callback?

### --question--

#### --text--

Which of the following statements about closures and higher-order functions is true?

#### --distractors--

Higher-order functions must always return a new function; otherwise, they are not considered higher-order.

---

Closures and higher-order functions are unrelated concepts in JavaScript.

---

Higher-order functions cannot create closures since they do not return inner functions.

#### --answer--

Closures created by higher-order functions can capture the lexical scope, allowing for state preservation.

### --question--

#### --text--

> Evaluate the output

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
What is the result of this code?
```

```js
const numbers = [1, 1, 1, 1, 1];
let sum = 0;
const forEachRes = numbers.forEach(num => {
  return (sum += num);
});
const mapRes = numbers.map(num => {
  return (sum += num);
});
```

#### --distractors--

`forEachRes` is `undefined` and `mapRes` is `[1,2,3,4,5]`

---

`forEachRes` is `0` and `mapRes` is `[1,2,3,4,5]`

---

`forEachRes` is `5` and `mapRes` is `[1,2,3,4,5]`

#### --answer--

`forEachRes` is `undefined` and `mapRes` is `[6,7,8,9,10]`

### --question--

#### --text--

> Evaluate the output

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
What is the result of this code?
```

```js
[, undefined, 'a', 'b', { 20: 5 }].sort();
```

#### --distractors--

> unsupported elements for an array to be sorted, hence error

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Unsupported elements for an array to be sorted, hence error
```

> Unsupported elements for an array to be sorted, hence error

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Unsupported elements for an array to be sorted, hence error.
```

---

Callback not supplied, hence error

---

```js

> [<1 empty item>, 'a', 'b', undefined, { '20': 5 }]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[empty, 'a', 'b', undefined, { '20': 5 }]
```
Let's change it for the distractor as well, just so it is consistent.

```

#### --answer--

```js

> [{ '20': 5 }, 'a', 'b', undefined, <1 empty item>]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[{ '20': 5 }, 'a', 'b', undefined, empty]
```

The actual output for the empty element is runtime specific. WebKit doesn't even show the empty value, but you can tell by the length it gives that it counts it.

When I tested it, only Node and Deno shows `<1 empty item>`. They all (-WebKit) have `empty` in the value, so maybe we should just leave it at that? That is also [how MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/sort#using_sort_on_sparse_arrays) has it.

Chrome:
```
[{"20": 5}, "a", "b", undefined, empty]
```

Firefox:

```
[{"20": 5}, "a", "b", undefined, <1 empty slot>]
```

WebKit:

```
[{20: 5}, "a", "b", undefined] (5)
```

Node.js/Deno

```
[ { '20': 5 }, 'a', 'b', undefined, <1 empty item> ]
```

Bun

```
[{"20": 5,}, "a", "b", undefined, empty item]
```

Author: I remember trying it in my browser(firefox) and terminal(node), decided to go with the notation that both of them provided me, im fine with "empty" gets the concept across

```

### --question--

#### --text--

Which of the following describes a callback function in JavaScript?

#### --distractors--

A function that is called immediately upon declaration.

---

A function that is invoked with a specific context.

---

A function that returns another function.

#### --answer--

> A function passed as an argument to another function, to be executed later.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A function passed as an argument to another function, to be executed by that function's logic.
```

### --question--

#### --text--

What is the result of using `reduce()` on an array?

#### --distractors--

A boolean indicating whether any elements meet a condition.

---

> An Array with all elements reduced by specified callback function

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
An Array with all elements reduced by specified callback function.
```

---

> An Array of booleans

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
An Array of booleans.
```

#### --answer--

A single accumulated value derived from all elements in the array.

### --question--

#### --text--

How does the `sort()` method behave if no comparison function is provided?

#### --distractors--

> It sorts the array as strings based on UTF-16 code units but takes undefined, empty slots and object references the start

Reviewer 2: this sentence is uncomplete or broken

Author: fixing it to beginning of the array

> It sorts the array as strings based on UTF-16 code units but takes undefined, empty slots and object references the beginning of the array.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It sorts the array as strings based on UTF-16 code units, sorting `undefined`, empty slots, and object references to the beginning of the array.
```

> It sorts the array as strings based on UTF-16 code units but takes undefined, empty slots and object references the beginning of the array

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It sorts the array as strings based on UTF-16 code units but takes undefined, empty slots and object references the beginning of the array.
```

---

It returns an error.

---

It sorts the array in reverse order.

#### --answer--

> It sorts the array as strings based on UTF-16 code units but moves empty slots to the end of the array and object references converts to `"[object Object]"`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It sorts the array as strings based on UTF-16 code units. Objects are compared by converting them to the string `"[object Object]"` for the compare. Empty slots are moved to the end of the array.
```

If we can make it more clear that it is only for the string comparison that objects are converted, that might help. I have given a suggestion.

> It sorts the array as strings based on UTF-16 code units but moves empty slots to the end of the array and object references converts to `"[object Object]"`.

Reviewer 4: What is meant by object references here? What type of object becomes `[object Object]`?

```
const obj = { 20: 5 };
[, undefined, 'a', 'b', obj].sort(); // [{"20": 5}, "a", "b", undefined, empty]
```

Author: So, when you sort an array that includes objects without a comparison function, those objects will be converted to the string "[object Object]" during the sorting process. This means that they will be treated as strings and placed in the sorted array accordingly, usually appearing after any other strings due to their lexicographical order.

["banana", { age: 30 }, "apple", { name: "John" }, "cherry", undefined].sort()
["banana", "apple", { name: "John" }, "cherry", { age: 30 }, undefined].sort()
The first one gives object - {age:30} before {name:"john"} second one gives the opposite showing the content does not matter 

["banana", { age: 30 }, "apple", { name: "John" }, "cherry", undefined, "[ abject ]"].sort()
To further clarify the string "[ abject ]" comes before both the objects

Reviewer 4: I just think this could easily be misinterpreted as saying it will return an array with objects converted to `"[object Object]"`.

I have added a suggestion which might help clarify this.

### --question--

#### --text--

What is the purpose of the `some()` method in JavaScript?

#### --distractors--

To create a new array with the results of a function applied to each element.

---

To iterate through an array without producing a result.

---

To reduce an array to a single value based on a callback function.

#### --answer--

To determine if any elements in an array pass a specified test.

### --question--

#### --text--

> Which of the following is an example of method chaining?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Which of the following is a valid example of method chaining?
```

#### --distractors--

```js
Math.random();
```

---

```js
array.push(1).pop();
```

---

```js
console.log('Hello');
```

#### --answer--

```js
str.toLowerCase().trim().replace(' ', '_');
```

### --question--

#### --text--

What must a method return to allow for method chaining?

#### --distractors--

A primitive value.

---

A boolean value.

---

An array.

#### --answer--

> The same object or another object that has more methods.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The same object or another object that has more methods.
```

the same object in respect to what? there is no object mentioned in the question or this answer

Author: Sorry i meant 'this' will fix it

### --question--

#### --text--

Which of the following benefits does method chaining provide?

#### --distractors--

It inherently optimizes performance by reducing the execution time of functions.

---

> It eliminates the need for temporary variables but may increase memory usage in some cases.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It eliminates the need for temporary variables, but may increase memory usage in some cases.
```

---

It allows for error handling and debugging to be more straightforward.

#### --answer--

> It promotes simplified syntax and more readable code by allowing multiple operations in a single expression.

Reviewer 2: I am not sure if it is more readable...

Author: While I recognize that personal preference plays a role, many people believe that method chaining enhances code readability

### --question--

#### --text--

In the context of method chaining, what is a fluent interface?

#### --distractors--

A way to handle errors in method calls.

---

A type of function that returns a promise.

---

A design pattern for asynchronous programming.

#### --answer--

A style that allows method chaining for more natural syntax.

### --question--

#### --text--

What is the impact of using `bind()` on a higher-order function in JavaScript?

#### --distractors--

> `bind()` creates a new function with a specific this context, but does not change the function's parameters.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`bind()` creates a new function with a specific `this context`, but does not change the function's parameters.
```

> `bind()` creates a new function with a specific `this context`, but does not change the function's parameters.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`bind()` creates a new function with a specific `this` context, but does not change the function's parameters.
```

---

`bind()` can modify the original function's implementation.

---

`bind()` ensures the function is executed immediately with the specified context.

#### --answer--

> `bind()` creates a new function with a specific this context, allowing the higher-order function to retain the intended context when called later.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`bind()` creates a new function with a specific `this` context, allowing the higher-order function to retain the intended context when called later.
```

### --question--

#### --text--

Which of the following methods supports method chaining?

#### --distractors--

```js
Array.prototype.concat();
```

---

```js
Array.prototype.map();
```

---

```js
Array.prototype.filter();
```

#### --answer--

> All options mentioned

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
All options mentioned.
```

### --question--

#### --text--

> what will `[2, , 2].every((x) => x === 2)` return?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
What will `[2, , 2].every((x) => x === 2)` return?
```

#### --text--

What does the following code demonstrate about the `.filter()` method in JavaScript?

```js
const originalArray = [{ id: 1 }, { id: 2 }, { id: 3 }];
const filteredArray = originalArray.filter(item => item.id > 1);
filteredArray[0].id = 4;

console.log(originalArray);
```

#### --distractors--

`originalArray` remains unchanged.

---

`originalArray` only retains the elements filtered out.

---

`originalArray` is completely different from `filteredArray`.

#### --answer--

`originalArray` reflects changes made to `filteredArray` due to shallow copying.

### --question--

#### --text--

What would be the output of the following code?

```js
const multiply = (a) => (b) => a * b;
const operations = [multiply(2), multiply(3)];
const result = operations.reduce((acc, fn) => fn(acc), 5);

console.log(result);
```

#### --distractors--

`10`

---

`100`

---

`20`

#### --answer--

`30`

### --question--

#### --text--

What is the purpose of the `initialValue` parameter in the `reduce()` method?

#### --distractors--

To set the length of the array.

---

To limit the number of iterations.

---

To specify the return type of the function.

#### --answer--

> To define the starting point for the accumulator.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To define the starting value for the accumulator.
```

### --question--

#### --text--

> What is the recommended practice when using the `map()` method comparing to `forEach()`?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
What is the recommended practice when using the `map()` method instead of `forEach()`?
```
